Here is a summary for my NFT lien protocol



The platform will facilitate the buying, selling, and repayment of
loans against NFTs, as well as the buying and selling of the NFTs
themselves in order to bring those loans to maturation. It will be a
web browser based platform with the possible addition of a standalone
application for desktop or mobile in the future.

NFT owners who wish to "sell" a loan against their NFT must create a
wallet on our platform. Similar to the wallets created on the Gnosis
multisignature wallet platform, the wallets created on our platform
will be non-custodial (only the wallet owner can transact with them,
not the platform or us as a company) but will be restricted by certain
rules written to the blockchain contract at the creation of each
individual wallet as well as whenever loans are sold.

The main risks as I see them, are 1. someone might learn about the
system and release a similar platform before we do and thus steal our
first mover advantage, and 2. we might make critical errors in the
coding of the platform undermining the trust required by our customers
to use the platform, and of these potential coding errors the worst
would be errors in the solidity (blockchain) code, so while the
platform is not extremely complex, it is of absolute importance that
we 1. build it in secret and 2. build it without any critical errors
upon launch.

The main motivation for NFT owners to use our platform is that they
can monetize their NFT without selling it, and unlike other lending
platforms loans on our platform do not accrue interest nor do they
expire at a certain time, and thus NFT owners do not run the risk of
auto-liquidation which occurs on all other lending platforms. The main
motivation of lenders (investors) to use our platform is first 1. the
ability to invest in high value NFT assets without having the full
amount required to purchase such an NFT, for example a lender can
"invest" in an 80 ETH Bored Ape NFT for only 8 ETH, or even 0.8 ETH,
and second 2. the ability to buy loans at a discount which are
guaranteed to repay at "spot price".

When a lender buys a lien from an NFT owner, the "spot price" or SP is
written to the contract. What I mean by spot price is the
non-manipulated floor price, in other words if the floor price of
Bored Apes is 80 ETH but there happens to be some outlier for any
reason for example by user error (a user accidentally lists his NFT
for 8 ETH instead of 80 ETH). The other way a floor price may be
manipulated is on low volume NFT collections where the average trade
price for the last 7 days is 80 ETH but listing prices for some reason
are considerably lower, for example 70 ETH. A third way the floor
price and average sale price may be manipulated is through private
sales. In other words if there are many private sales of Bored Apes
for 50 ETH in the past few days, that does not necessarily the true
price because these private sales can simply be a user selling the NFT
to himself from one of his wallets to another. Thus it is necessary to
take into account all these considerations in order to determine the
"true average price" or what we call "spot price".

Once the spot price is determined automatically through the rules
which are hardcoded to our contract, the next step is to determine
what price the lender paid for the loan in relation to that spot price
and the percentage of the total equity he received in the transaction.
For example if the Bored Ape spot price is 80 ETH and the lender pays
8 ETH for 10% of the equity of a Bored Ape NFT, then he purchased the
lien at spot price. If he paid 10 ETH for 10% then he purchased the
lien at 125% of spot price. If 12 ETH then 150% of spot price and if
6ETH then 75% of spot price and so on.

Spot price is not a fixed value, but always in flux. The spot price of
Bored Apes might be 80 ETH today, while tomorrow it is 75 ETH and next
Friday it is 85 ETH and so on. So spot price only has meaning when
given a specific date and time, for example the spot price on 2/11/23
at 3:05 PM.

There are two times we must determine spot price: 1. when the lien is
created, in other words when a lender/investor buys a lien from an NFT
owner, and 2. when the lien is destroyed by NFT owner either repaying
the lien or selling the NFT to a third party forcing the repayment to
the lender from the proceeds of the sale. The first we call the Launch
Price or "L" (the launch or publishing to the blockchain of the lien)
and the second we call the End Price or "E" when the lien is destroyed
according the rules of the contract.

The lien platform, the wallets created on it, and every contract
created by the wallets use L and E which are just spot prices taken at
two specific dates and times, in order to enforce fair liquidations of
the NFTs to repay liens. This is achieved by something which I devised
called the "Best of 3" System". But first we must determine a couple
more numbers to create our Best of 3 System.

The next number we must determine is what I call the Adjusted Price or
"AP" which is derived by taking the amount in ETH paid by the lender
divided by the percentage of equity received for the lien. For example
if the lender pays 10 ETH for 10% of a Bored Ape when the spot price
is 80 ETH, then the AP is 100 ETH. Next we determine the Price
Multiplier or "PM" by dividing the adjusted price (AP) by the spot
price (SP), for example in this case 100 ETH by 80 ETH which is 1.25

The final two numbers we must note are the "Equity Percentage"  or EP
which is simply how much equity the lender received when he bought the
lien, and the "Real Sale Price" or RP which is simply the actual
amount the NFT sells for upon liquidation to repay the liens.

The "BEST OF 3" system ensures that upon liquidation of an NFT which
has liens against it, the lender shall receive the best (or highest)
of 3 amounts. The three amounts are:

A. RP times EP
B. E times EP
C. E times EP times PM

The reason we must account for both the second and third options, is
that a lender might purchase a lien at a discount to the current spot
price. For example if the spot price of Bored Apes is 80 ETH but the
lender buys 10% for only 7.2 ETH then he will have bought the lien at
a 10% discount, and thus in the case of discounted liens C will be
less than B, while the reverse is true in a more bullish market where
lenders pay a premium for the liens.

A few practical examples:

If Mike buys 10% equity of a Bored Ape for 7.2 ETH when the spot price
is 80 ETH and the NFT owner later sells the NFT for 99 ETH when the
spot price is 90 ETH then...

EP = 10%
PM = 0.9
L = 80 ETH
E = 90 ETH
RP = 99 ETH

According to the Best of 3 System...

A = 9.9 ETH
B = 9 ETH
C = 8.1 ETH

Therefore Mike receives A or 9.9 ETH which is the highest value or
"best of 3" at the time of this sale.

If Lucy buys 20% equity of a Bored Ape for 25 ETH when the spot price
is 100 ETH and the NFT owner later sells the NFT for 180 ETH when the
spot price is 200 ETH then...

EP = 20%
PM = 1.25
L = 100 ETH
E = 200 ETH
RP = 180 ETH

According to the Best of 3 System...

A = 180 x 20% = 36 ETH
B = 200 x 20% = 40 ETH
C = 200 x 20% x 1.25 = 50 ETH

Therefore Lucy receives C or 50 ETH which is the highest value and
"best of 3" at the time of sale.

The Lien Platform the creation of a new wallet by NFT owners in order
to sell liens against their NFT, but in many ways this wallet
functions the same as a metamask non-custodial wallet. We will use a
"whitelist" system enabling the owner of such a wallet to connect it
to safe contracts for such things as Discord or Twitter verification,
Tokenproof and other highly reliable destinations. He will not be able
to mint new NFTs from unknown sites or connect to any contract for
that matter which is not on the whitelist.

Potential lenders/investors will search our platform similarly to how
they search OpenSea according to collection, price, etc. In fact the
Lien Market will look very much like a standard NFT marketplace, but
of course there will be additional filtering options and more
information on each individual NFT page.

For example the individual NFT page for Bored Ape #1185 (my crown ape)
might look like this.

List price = 500 ETH (users can purchase the NFT outright for the full 500 ETH)
Lien price = 450 ETH (users can purchase liens in any amount according
to a full price of 450 ETH)
**Logically the lien price will almost always be less than the list
price unless the user has no idea what they are doing
PM = 4.5 (for example if the spot price of Bored Apes is 100 ETH, then
a 450 ETH lien price is 4.5 times that amount)
Equity available = this is the amount of equity (liens) I am still
willing to sell
Equity sold = this is the amount of equity (liens) I have already sold

One note about selling liens at a premium. If an NFT owner sells liens
at 200% of spot price, then the amount of equity he will be allowed to
sell will be capped at 50%, in other words the inverse of the price.
If he sells at 300% of the price then equity will be capped at 1/3 or
33%. If 400% (or 4 x spot price) then he is capped at 1/4 or 25%,
always following this law of inverse ratios. This is to ensure that
the Best of 3 System always works, because C always multiplies by PM
which in this last case would be 4.

Moreover, the NFT owner cannot sell the NFT for less than the amount
required to repay the liens according to the Best of 3 System.
Therefore if the Best of 3 indicates that a sale must pay out to
lienholders a minimum of 100 ETH then the owner cannot list or sell
his NFT for anything less than 100 ETH.

In the case of a "Stale Loan" for example if a lender buys at a high
premium say 500% (PM of 5) and the collection becomes less popular as
happens with rugged projects or for any other reason, then the only
recourse such a lender has is to sell his note (most likely at a
discount). So going back to the individual NFT pages for NFTs on our
platform, there will also be listed any liens against that NFT for
sale by users who are not the NFT owner. For example if John buys 10%
of my Bored Ape #1185 for 50 ETH and the spot price drops but I still
have my lien price listed at 450 ETH, then John is free to list his
10% for sale for whatever price he wants. He can list his 10% for 10
ETH for example, and potential lenders will obviously buy his 10%
before buying an additional 10% from me at the much higher price.

Also as a final note, and this just follows logically from the Best of
3 System, an owner of an NFT with liens against it may always
repurchase those liens from lienholders for B if the liens were sold
at spot price or at a discount, and C if the loans were sold at a
premium.

So on the Lien Platform, users can:

1. Create non-custodial lien platform (LP) wallets with additional
rules for liens
2. Sell liens against the NFTs in their LP wallet
3. Repurchase liens from lienholders
4. Sell liens against NFTs they do not own
5. Buy and sell NFTs (not liens)
6. Make public and private offers on any individual NFT or "collection
offers" which anyone with a Bored Ape can accept for example, for the
sale or purchase of the actual NFT or liens against it

Monetization of the Lien Platform will be through transaction fees
which I propose to set at 2% which flows back to the platform on every
sale or purchase of NFTs or liens against them.

Additional monetization which I recommend is through a kind of
pre-sale in which 50,000 NFTs are sold according to an increasing
price model starting at $100 or .1 ETH for the first 100 NFTs, $200 or
.2 ETH for the next 100 NFTs and so on up to 50,000. The total revenue
of such a sale with 50,000 NFTs sold can be calculated as follows:

50,000 x $50,000 (max price) / 2 (divided by 2 to get the average
price) = $1.25 billion
Multiply this number by 1.6 if the NFTs are sold in ETH rather than
USDC ie. .1 ETH for first 100, .2 ETH for next 100 and so on

But even if only 10,000 NFTs are sold according to this model, the
revenue would be 10,000 x 10,000 / 2 = $50 million (or $80 million if
sold in ETH)

The benefits of owning one of these NFTs would be to receive some,
most, or all of the transaction fees. For example if we allot half of
the total 2% (ie. 1%) transaction fees to be distributed to NFT
holders, then this 1% would be divided and distributed equally to
every NFT. As long as the potential ROI is reasonable the NFTs will be
seen as a good value. As the platform grows the transaction fees would
grow thus justifying a higher NFT price.

A note on distributing transaction fees to NFT holders because if it
is done in ETH then these NFTs could be considered "securities" and
come under SEC laws. The way to avoid this, and the way I would
propose implementing this system is by creating our own proprietary
coin which would be something like "Disney dollars" as follows:

Every day the total transaction fees in ETH on the entire platform are
calculated. This number is divided in half since we only intend to
distribute half of those fees to NFT holders. Then number of of our
proprietary coin equal to this 1% (transaction fees) are created. For
example if 100 ETH is earned by the platform on Tuesday which is the
total 2%, then half of that ie. 1% would be 50 ETH. We would create 50
PC (proprietary coin) and distribute them equally to all of the NFTs
in circulation.

Rather than creating a liquidity pool which is problematic with SEC
regulations, we will simply use our proprietary coin as a coupon for
purchase of products only on our platform. In other words our
proprietary coin can be spent to buy anything for sale on our platform
but nothing else, and the value will be equal to Ethereum on our
platform, just as a Disney dollar is equal to a dollar but only in
Disneyland and is therefore not considered a security.

Finally a demonstration of how the proprietary coin functions:

Max an NFT holder receives 10 PC in distributions from transaction
fees. Max then finds a Bored Ape on our platform which he wishes to
buy a lien against. The lien price is 100 ETH so he can purchase 10%
of the Bored Ape NFT for 10 PC just as if he were paying with ETH. The
platform receives the PC, burns it and distributes 10 ETH instead to
the NFT owner. This is the life cycle of the proporietary coin. This
will be beneficial for the economy and volume of transactions on the
platform, since it encourages respending of all money received by NFT
holders back into the platform completing the ecosystem.

There are many other benefits to this system, just as there are with
any good economic model, too many to list. One example is the economic
benefit on the entire market, when all Bored Ape holders suddenly have
a new more beneficial way of monetizing their NFTs instead of outright
selling them, then the supply of Bored Apes for sale will decrease and
the price will increase. Many other phenomena like this are easy to
find.https://github.com/Ape-Harmony/ape-harmony-docs.git
